Two expressions
in today’s Watchtower comments
are “our heart” and “Jehovah’s thinking.”
Now, based on these key expressions,
let us consider these questions:
What is our heart?
How deep should
Jehovah’s thoughts enter into it?
And what steps
can we take to absorb God’s thinking?
So, what is our heart?
Well, in the Bible, the word “heart”
is mentioned some 1,000 times.
Now, of that large number of occurrences,
only a few verses refer
to the literal heart.
All other verses refer
to the figurative heart.
So, what is our figurative heart?
Our inner person.
Does it refer to our emotions?
Yes, our emotions are part of our heart.
Does it refer
to our thinking abilities, our mind?
Yes, the mind is part of it.
Does it refer to our motivations?
Yes, motivations are part of it.
So, then, how do these different parts
all relate to one another?
Well, to answer that,
let’s compare our heart with a book.
A book is made up of several chapters.
Similarly, our heart is made up
of several qualities and capabilities.
Now, just as all chapters
together form a book,
so all qualities
of our inner person together
form our heart.
Well, how many chapters,
so to speak, are there in our heart?
Well, numerous.
They include not only our emotions,
motivations, and thoughts
but also our attitude,
desire, disposition,
goals, and other aspects.
Just as all chapters
together form the heart,
how many chapters,
so to speak, are there in our heart?
Well, our heart stands
for all the qualities of the inner person
that make each of us
the unique individual that we are.
Now, how deep
should Jehovah’s thoughts
enter into our heart?
Well, the Bible answers that question
by means of a comparison,
and we find that comparison
at Proverbs 7:1, 3.
Perhaps you would like to read along
—Proverbs 7:1, 3.
We will start in verse 1:
“My son, keep my sayings,
and treasure up my commandments.”
And then the last part of verse 3 says:
“Write them on the tablet of your heart.”
Now, why did Solomon
use the word “tablet”
when speaking about the heart?
Well, today when we hear
the word “tablet,”
what do we think of ?
Well, likely we think
of a handheld electronic device.
But back in Bible times,
when the Israelites heard the phrase
‘write my commandments upon the tablet,’
it must have reminded them
of the two stone tablets
on which Jehovah
wrote the Ten Commandments.
And come to think of it, in a way,
those tablets were also handheld devices
but very heavy ones.
Now, in Exodus chapter 24,
we find the first mention
in the Bible of the word “tablets.”
There Jehovah told Moses
that He would write His commandments
on stone tablets.
And then at Exodus 32:16,
the Bible describes the method of writing
that Jehovah had used:
“The tablets were the workmanship of God,
“and the writing was the writing
of God engraved on the tablets.”
So, what did the Israelites know
about the method of writing
that Jehovah had used?
Well, they knew that God’s laws
were not written on the surface
of the tablet with a piece of chalk.
No.
If that had been the case,
the laws could have been easily erased.
They knew that God’s commandments
were engraved on stone tablets.
They understood that the laws of God
were so deeply impressed into the tablets
that they had become part of the stones.
They could not be washed away or erased.
They were indelible.
So, then, why did Solomon
compare the heart with a tablet?
To teach an important truth
about the connection
between Jehovah’s thoughts and our heart.
What is it?
Just as God’s laws
were engraved in the tablets,
so God’s instructions should be engraved
in our heart—in our inner person.
They should become
a permanent part of us.
So, what steps can we take
to ensure that our heart
absorbs God’s thinking?
Well, the psalmist David helps us
to answer that question at Psalm 19:14.
Now, let’s read it together and note
with what activity David connects the heart.
Psalm 19:14 says:
“May the words of my mouth
“and the meditation of my heart
“be pleasing to you, O Jehovah,
my Rock and my Redeemer.”
So this psalm
connects the heart with meditation.
And, indeed,
when we meditate on God’s Word,
we let our heart absorb God’s thinking.
But we need to meditate in the proper way.
What way is that?
Now think of this comparison:
Studying God’s Word
and taking time to meditate on it
is a bit like making a cup of tea.
A cup of tea?
What is the connection?
Well, to make a cup of tea,
you need a cup,
water,
and a tea bag.
Now, let’s compare the cup
with our outer person,
and let’s compare the water in the cup
with our inner person, or our heart.
Then we have the tea bag.
Well, this is not just a common,
average tea bag.
No, this bag is filled
with the finest tea that can be found.
The contents of the bag
are not only tasty but also nutritious.
It even has health benefits.
Now let’s compare
this precious tea bag
with a Bible passage.
Now, what do we need to do first
before we put the tea bag in the water?
First, we need to prepare the water
so that it will have the right temperature,
or condition, to receive the tea bag.
Similarly, before reading the Bible,
first we need to prepare
our inner person
so that it will be in the right condition
to receive God’s words and thoughts.
We prepare our heart
—we warm the water, so to speak—
by praying to Jehovah,
asking him to open our heart
to receive his words.
After that, we are ready
to take the next step.
We put the tea bag in the water.
Likewise, after prayer,
we are ready to take the next step.
We start reading the Bible.
Now, what will we do next
with the tea bag?
Well, now comes the crucial question:
How long will we let
the tea bag steep in the water?
Well, if we are in a hurry,
we may leave the tea bag
for a few seconds in the water,
then we move it a couple of times
up and down, and we pull it out.
The result?
We end up with a weak cup of tea.
Likewise, if we read the Bible hastily,
and we think about what we read
just for a few seconds,
and then we hurry off
to do our daily activities,
what will be the result?
We do not give our heart the time needed
to absorb God’s thoughts.
But if we leave the tea bag
to steep much longer in the water,
then we allow the water to absorb the tea.
The tea becomes part of the water,
and we end up with a strong cup of tea.
Similarly, after carefully reading
a Bible passage,
we pause and take our time
to meditate on what we read.
In that way, we will give
our heart the opportunity
to absorb the precious truth
from God’s Word.
What will be the result?
Jehovah’s thoughts
will become an indelible part
of our heart.
So in summary, what are the three points
that we considered?
First, our heart
encompasses all the qualities
of the inner person that make each of us
the unique individual that we are.
Second, Jehovah’s thoughts
should enter so deep into our heart
that they become a permanent part of it.
And third, to absorb
Jehovah’s thoughts in our heart,
we need to meditate calmly
on what we read in God’s Word.
When it comes to meditation,
what is our goal?
We want to be a strong cup of tea.